BUILD 

INDUCTION Day 1, 15, 43; then MAINTENANCE Day 1 Q8WEEKS (following day 43):
GIA VEDOLIZUMAB Q8WEEK (INDUCTION THEN MAINTENANCE) - PRL8027

MAINTENANCE Day 1, Q 4 WEEKS:
GIA VEDOLIZUMAB Q4WEEK (MAINTENANCE) - PRL8877

MAINTENANCE Day 1, Q 8 WEEK (added 3/15/2018):
GIA VEDOLIZUMAB Q8WEEK (MAINTENANCE) - PRL6845

Provider Reminders
Avoid in malignancy 
Pregnancy Category B.
Avoid use with biologic agents such as anti-TNF agents and natalizumab.
Patients should have a baseline PPD placed and chest X-ray (as indicated).
Not recommended in patients with uncontrolled, active, severe infections. Consider withholding in patients who develop a severe infection while being treated.
Discontinue therapy in patients who show no evidence of therapeutic benefit by week 14.
Patients should be brought up to date with all immunizations before initiating therapy. Live vaccines should not be given concurrently unless the benefits outweigh the risks. There is no literature concerning secondary transmission of live vaccines in patients receiving therapy. CDC website - Vaccines
~ Although no cases of PML have been reported in clinical trials,
the potential risk for developing progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML) cannot be ruled out.

Lab Orders
Baseline labs before initial treatment:  PPD, HBsAg, Hep BcAb
Intermittent labs:  PPD, LFT’s periodically suggested	

Premedications
Hydration/Fluids
0.9% saline 500 mL as continuous infusion at 20 mL/hr as primary line to keep vein open.

Note: Premedications should be administered per physician discretion or if patient has had a prior reaction to vedolizumab.
Acetaminophen (TYLENOL) 325 mg tab.  Give 2 tablets PO 30 minutes prior to infusion.
Dosing note:  DIPHENHYDRAMINE: Dose may be 25 mg or 50 mg.  May substitute with cetirizine if not tolerated or desired.
DiphenhydrAMINE (BENADRYL) 50 mg capsule.  Give 1 capsule PO 30 minutes prior to infusion.  
Cetirizine (ZYRTEC) 10mg tablet.  Give 1 tablet PO 30 minutes prior to infusion if diphenhydramine is not tolerated or desired.
AOG: Select only ONE order:
Hydrocortisone (SOLU-CORTEF) 100 mg.  Give IV push 30 minutes prior to infusion.
Methylprednisolone (SOLU-MEDROL) 60 mg.  Give IV push 30 minutes prior to infusion.
NO STEROID ORDER NEEDED AT THIS TIME.

Antiemetics (Level 1) - No default prophylactic antiemetics

Therapy	
Vedolizumab (ENTYVIO) 300 mg in 0.9% saline 250 mL IVPB over 30 minutes.  
Give on day 1, 15, 43 during induction phase.  

Vedolizumab (ENTYVIO) 300 mg in 0.9% saline 250 mL IVPB over 30 minutes.  
Give on day 1 every ___ weeks during maintenance phase.  

PRN and HSR (Hypersensitivity Reaction) Medications	
ONDANsetron (ZOFRAN) 8 mg.  Give IV push one time as needed for nausea or vomiting.
LORazepam (ATIVAN) 0.5 mg tab. Give 1 tablet PO PRN nausea, vomiting, or anxiety.  May repeat one time in 30 minutes and every 4 hours prn thereafter.
LORazepam (ATIVAN) 0.5 mg injection. Inject 0.5 mg IV push PRN nausea, vomiting, or anxiety if unable to tolerate oral formulation.  May repeat one time in 30 minutes and every 4 hours prn thereafter.
Acetaminophen (TYLENOL) 325 mg tab.  Take 2 tablets PO every 4 hours if needed for fever (greater than 100.4 F), myalgias, arthralgias, or headache.
Alteplase (CATHFLO ACTIVASE) 2 mg injection.  Instill dose one time PRN into occluded central venous catheter per nursing procedure.
Hydrocortisone (SOLU-CORTEF) 100 mg.  Give IV push one time, if needed for shortness of breath, bronchospasm, or other symptoms of a suspected hypersensitivity reaction not otherwise specified.  Notify MD upon giving medication.
DiphenhydrAMINE (BENADRYL) 50 mg.  Give IV push one time, if needed for hives, rash, or swelling related to a suspected hypersensitivity reaction.  Notify MD upon giving medication.

Nursing Orders	
~  Verify that patient meets the parameters for administration.
~  Perform assessment for toxicity and tolerance.
~  Assess for new pregnancy.
~  Do not administer vedolizumab, and notify responsible physician if patient:
~    Has temperature greater than 100.4o F
~    Has symptoms of acute viral or bacterial illness
~    Is taking antibiotics for current infection
~  Watch for fever, chills, pruritis, chest pain, blood pressure changes, or dyspnea.
~  Have patient report immediately to prescriber signs of infection, signs of hepatic impairment, dyspnea, dizziness, flushing, tachycardia, arrhythmia, severe headache, or signs of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML). Signs and symptoms associated with PML include weakness, disturbance of vision, and changes in thinking, memory, and orientation leading to confusion and personality changes.
~  For hypersensitivity: stop vedolizumab, give diphenhydramine and steroid as ordered.
~  For anaphylaxis: stop infusion, call MD to assess need for epinephrine.
~  For nausea, give prochlorperazine PO or ondansetron IVPB as ordered.
~  Flush IV line with minimum of 30 mL of primary solution before and after each agent. 
~  If stable, discontinue IV.
~  Review discharge medications, instructions, and future appointments with the patient.

References		
Entyvio [package insert] 
Beacon training and resources Link
CDC website – Vaccines
Sandborn, et al. N Engl J Med 2013;369:711-721
Feagan, et al. N Engl J Med 2013;369:699-710
